SUBSTITUTIONS
-------------
rn2(x) == rund(x) (it does a %x)
rn1(x,y) == rund(x)+y
rnd(x) == rnd(x)  (it does a %x + 1)
d(n,x) rolls <n>d<x> dice  == dice(n,x)

"index" == strchr
           CharPtr StrChr(CharPtr str, Int chr);
           return ptr to first occurence or NULL if not found.
"rindex" == strrchr, which doesn't exist here.
            (supposed to find last occurence in string).
            see my_rindex in util.c .... sigh...

THINGS THAT ARE COMPLETE
------------------------
make_level.c DONE
     level making is done; many functions elsewhere were dummied though.
     As I implement them, I move their declarations in prototypes.h to SEC_1.
make_maze DONE
    I checked the iterative revision to make sure BIGNUM is big enough.
 *new high level goal: getting "stuff that init_character calls" to work.
 *new HLG: screen drawing code.
The screen draws when you start the game.
    (some of the drawing code, like for zapping and fancy stuff, is still AWOL)
 *new HLG: the walking-around-i.e.-not-into-walls code
You can walk around in a rudimentary way now, one square at a time.
    After you can walk around in the dungeon by yourself, I will work on
    monsters, objects, inventory, etc. which are all nasty listses.  gollum.
    so, I think I will have to leave most of the listy things as lists.
    this disturbs me a little because (1) leaks would be real bad and
    (2) the heap is pretty small, even without leaks it might not work.
    12K-36K for all globals + malloced stuff.  Oh, well, let's try it
    leaving mallocs alone.  The alternative is stuffing them into the DB.
 *new HLG: create the "const" database.  this is in ./WriteDatabase/
Your inventory is created at startup.
You can view it in the inventory form.
    Also, DON'T FORGET TO write something in lock.c that will randomize
    the descr strings (just swap their offsets around) -- for init_objects().
Monsters are created at startup.
Monsters are printed.
    however, something is a bit odd: when you get to a new unprinted screen,
    monsters are printed, but when you get to their room, the room writes over
    them(?) and you do not get to see them.
    hm maybe if I uncomment the rest of ridiculous_code().
    ah, that fixed monsters not being seen but does NOT fix monsters being
    seen already BEFORE i get to their room.  probably something else is
    commented out causing this.  oh yeah EVEN IF YOU'RE BLIND.
    also note that I can currently walk THROUGH monsters because the move
    code is partly commented-out.  and boulders too.
* * *  time passes (it's now August 2001)
Author has been contacted to confirm the (unchangeable alas) license terms.
    ok to port; can't make the game easier or harder.
You can run in addition to walking.
    oh, also I stuffed the uprops in to 'you'.
You can search.
    it works for doors and corridors.
How difficult would "picking up objects" be?...
  *random weird little bugs: A [] (unprintable char) was printed in a
   corridor.  It can't be walked on.  I wonder what it is.
  *new HLG: the stuff in do_move that until now has been skipped.
You can pick stuff up.
   it tries to pick up the boulders too.
You can drop stuff.
   can't select "how many" to drop though.
The right labels get put on the Do The Right Thing button in inventory.
You can hit a letter in the inv form to select that item...
You can wear and unwear armor.
You can wield and unwield weapons.
You can wear and unwear rings.
    I have NOT tested effects - some aren't implemented yet..
You can eat things in inventory and on the ground.
    It took me longer to get tins working but eventually I did.
You can quaff potions.
    I have NOT tested effects - some aren't implemented yet..
    note for blindness: you can see where you've been while blind??? interestig
You can, mostly, read a scroll.
    I have NOT tested effects - some aren't implemented yet..
*I was fixing things that needed aobjnam
*I made a 'ScratchBuffer' that people can write to RIGHT BEFORE message.
*I fixed-up "name known" for object class: use BIT{SET,TEST} on oc_name_known
You can zap wands
    I have NOT tested effects - some aren't implemented yet..
----
---- some remaining candidates for getting put in:
----  // dotrap, inshop.  these are quite long.
----
---- Hm, how about apply.c? that's one remaining ACT_foo...
----
---- busy fixing up camera in apply.c...
----
* * *  time passes (it's now January 2002)
       Damned if I can remember what I was doing last (in any detail, that is)
       I've imported into *local* CVS and hope to get going again.
  *New HLG: make more of do_apply work...
You can apply a camera.
    The 'animation' works.  The finding/blinding of a monster is untested.
You can open a tin!  It takes time properly and everything; I think.
    (I got onto this from 'apply' canopener, which, trivially, works.)
You could probably use a (reg. or magic) whistle, but it hasn't been tested!!
    (need to have the little dog around, and moving?, and a whistle)
You can use the pickaxe.  It works!
    (and yes, it is correct behavior that you can dig a pit on the stairs)
    You CAN'T select an item to put in the icebox yet.
  *New HLG: Stuff that's marked as "not yet implemented" in prototypes.h
  *New HLG: Files that are in the DUMMIES section of the Makefile.
   I have stuffed in quite a bit more.  I lost track of what exactly though.
You can attack monsters now!  And they can move and attack you!
   But sometimes the game crashes with bus error.  sigh.
Now vault.c is code-complete! But wholly untested!!!
All of do_move() exists now.  Untested addition: moving boulders, ball + chain.
YOU CAN ENGRAVE NOW.
some more things I could do: interface for the menu items in form_inv.
I stuffed in almost all of shk.c, and added make_shop
* * *
 * * *
* * *  time passes (it's now March 2002)
       Once again I have no idea what I was up to.
Fixed a minor bug in use of exclaim() (returns %c not %s, for StrPrintF)
I turned on "cansee" and it might be behaving correctly now.
I fixed gem creation so that they are not 'glorkum' anymore.
I have been adding verb-commands that pop up a filtered inventory form
  - OK: apply, drop, eat, quaff, read, wield, engrave, zap, put on, name, call!
  - throw and wear don't even let you get out of the form.  oops.
    dip does nothing, which is not surprising, it's not implemented yet.
    (remove-ring doesn't even try to pop up a form yet)
  - we'll need this form for identify, and it needs to *count* number of uses.
  Maybe (for some verbs, the multi-per-turn verbs) Cancel should be Done
Added shopkeeper names to the database; seems to work.
Implemented the "show discovered stuff". (formerly called "dodiscovered")
The potion/scroll/etc names get shuffled in init_objects now.
And the "call" record gets erased at the same point.
The user name (plname) is set to hotsync name by default.
You can now wish for objects!  (if wand of wishing worked.)  via menu hack.
Scroll of genocide seems ok, still needs some work though
     the form should check whether it's a valid monster & disallow "Ok" if not.
     check in the use of fut_geno[] vs. genocided[]... what's the second one?
Camera flash should work now (had a 0x8000 flag on UChar! should be 0x80.)
Fortune cookies have fortunes now!
     if they take up exactly two lines, it will print -more-, argh.
     my long-message-dividing scheme probably isn't working quite perfectly.
Horizontal walls don't keep redrawing now :)
You can go up and down levels now, but it doesn't save them.
The guard in the vault will ask who you are using engrave form (untested)
Hey! Watch out for ESHK(...) in shk.c, target might be null.
The move-without-pickup 'm' and 'M' should work now..
You can switch to Itsy font.
You can save and restore!!!!! Sometimes it even works!!!!!
 (note, saving is not idempotent: it frees stuff. don't use for checkpointing!)
  (note also, saving worms is NOT IMPLEMENTED yet!)
Dungeon levels are saved/restored as you ascend/descend the stairs!
You can die now!
 But there is no top-ten score list yet.
  When you die, it should be saving a bones file.  Haven't tested loading yet!
You can throw things now!  throwing weapons and food seems to work.
You can name monsters! such as, your pet.
Level-teleportation sort of works.  (intra-level teleport-control doesn't work)
Thrown objects are animated, i.e. tmp_at stuff is implemented now.
Added very rudimentary hardware button stuff (can't be configured yet).
Added name and gender selection to initial character generation screen.
You can put stuff in the ice box, and take stuff out.  yay!
Added identify and 'D'drop.  yay!  but I still need to make them take a turn..
Fixed foo-detection: it displays the message, the stuff, and the "fades" now!
  Still need to do something about the screen being "too small" though.
  maybe it should automatically throw you into tiny font.. still not enough tho
  Also, it isn't taking a turn! fix this!
    (WARNING, you CAN get an engraveform after a foo-detection, if
    if you're confused.  at least if it's a scroll you can.
    and I should NOT take a turn if we're popping up the engraveform.)
Added ':' command to look at what you're standing on
  It should really pop up a window to print a big string into, but instead it
  just calls message a bunch of times.
Added '$' to count your gold.
Removed gold from the stats display.
Added number-of-moves to the stats display.  (to help with debugging later.)
The stats display now consults flags.botl when updating.
'multi' should sort-of work now.
Ghost name bug should be fixed now.  Yay.
Added some bugfixes from the google archive from 1980s.  UNTESTED by me.
Fixed ':' so that it doesn't put "Things that are here" for ==1 thing.
Add preempt-msg call so you don't hear The Howling when starting new character.
  You can still see old messages in messagelog window.  I figure that's ok.
Added instructions.
Changed the map from wizard-mode to show-known-only.  Frobbed it.
Added 2.3 metric buttloads of menus.
Fixed magic mapping so it WORKS.
Made potions & scrolls take time properly.  Tested most scrolls/potions.
  Now I get an error for enchant_weapon and damage_weapon scrolls...
   its pointer is being set to 0 before the EngraveForm pops up,
   so I get nastiness and eventually a "call a glorkum ?" window.
The Identify (and Drop) 'a'ny button should work now.
Mysteriously, the wand of secret door detection WORKS now.
The Drop (and Identify) 'u'npaid button should work now.

need to make "losestr()" beep.  done.

btw, in Hack, unix.c has a Y2K bug (in getdate() and a few places in end.c,
it saves a formerly-6-character date in 'record' file.)


TO DO:  teleportation interacts poorly with 'more' mode......
	test the vault query (croesus)
	saving and restoring of WORMS is NOT IMPLEMENTED YET.
	look at all the inv actions, make sure they take turn/don't, properly.
		also make sure they print msgs promptly (something wasn't..)
	game crashed if killed by eel? fix this.
	Need top ten list.  ok, need it to be printed by "High Scores" menu.
	Need 'count' (e.g. "99." SHOULD rest for 99 turns).
	when you're in invform, and the dog moves, it is drawn THERE! eek.
		FIXED, aug 10 2002.
        Add preferences/hardwarebutton forms to configure my_prefs values.
   Bug: It doesn't remember what part of the level I've seen, when
        I exit the app and return to it (and probably ascending/descending),
        when testing on the IIIc.  sometimes.
     Also, an old '@' is printed in some place you were a few moves back.
        and the monsters and the little dog are all in old places too.  GAR.
        This is way screwy.
		FIXED, aug 10-16 2002.
        Wonder if it is related to levels being created with cruft in walls.
		NO.
   Bug: 'take off' is completely screwy.
   Bug: null pointer or something when you "float to ground" after levitate.
        ditto when you die of food poisoning non-immediately ?



BACK TO THE OLD GRINDSTONE Sat Aug 10 2002
------------------------------------------
I hacked the things that call put_char_at so they print only in MainForm.
	hey - wonder if this will be a problem for "detect foo" effects.
   NOTE If any forms other than InvForm take time, might need to refresh()
   after calling LeaveForm.  Keep an eye out.
Fixed "dropping" (from 'i', 'd', and 'D') so that it takes 0 or 1 turns.
Fixed the savelevel amnesia!
	simple fix: tell start_savelev to DELETE the old record. duh.
	(it was leaving the original record for the level.  bah.)
...checked-in the above changes to Berlios.
----------
FRI AUG 16
----------
Fixed the "savelevel still has amnesia if this character has never exited app"
	ah, this is because not enough records exist,
	I think I have fixed this by having the check for the level-records
	 start at a lower number (ok because prev rec is stamped '0', < dlevel)
Fixed the "choked or interrupted eating from floor causes invselect popup".
----------
SUN AUG 18 or earlier.
----------
fixed (I think) the problem with 3 line messages showing only last line.
Added ROBOTFINDSKITTEN alternative mode for showing messages in inventory.
Added message log to InvForm menu.
Made the (old) message get cleared when you exit InvForm.
[checked in the code]
Removed the old debugging printf for throwing.
Fixed "11st, 12nd, 13rd" in end.c
Fixed the delayed update of ac in status line (when you wear/remove armor).
Fixed some message-showing problems with 'T' 'W' etc and also menu problem.
The high-score main menu item will actually show the high score list now.
[checked in the code]
	

TO DO:	ANYTHING NOT YET COMPLETED ON PREVIOUS to do list, PLUS:
	Killed when blinded by yellow flash == fatal exception in tombstone.
		I am UNABLE TO REPRODUCE this in emulator - it doesn't crash.
	Down+up before leaving PaleoHack for the first time == Wrong Level 1.
		FIXED in aug
	Eating from floor, if you choke or are interrupted, you get a popup!
		FIXED in aug (but tested only for choking)
	Fix RFK-mode (popup inventory messages) so that you can DIE w/o WEDGING
		FIXED in aug
	also, need to clear the message line when you exit inventory.
		FIXED - if stuff gets cleared too much, unfix it in form_inv.c
	3 line messages are shown only as the last line.
		FIXED I think.
	"Throwing" prints the symbol in message line for debug - remove it.
		FIXED in aug
	Shift-move (the tapping run) retries until you're out of bear trap!
		Tested this in Hack.  Apparently this is "correct" behavior.
	The top ten list page-scrolling overlaps too much.  why did I do that?
		Too lazy to fix it.
	The "ac" in status line is not updated when you wear/remove armor.
		FIXED in aug
	'W' from menu doesn't do anything; too much showmessage for 'W' or 'T'
		FIXED in aug
	Sometimes get a memory error (in movemon()).
		PH just read from memory location 0x7E7C, unallocated chunk.
		I have moved movemon to the default code section, keep eye out.
	PH will crash if you leave character generation before 1st character.
		or anyway it will create an empty save file.
		(note, this is only for the very first character ever.)
	Make sure dog doesn't print in inv, when you're identifying something.
	Sometimes you start out with NO DOG.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
STILL SUN AUG 18
----------------
Tested the vault query (croesus) for players who tunnel in; seems to work.
Fixed 'W' so that it uses {delay, nomul, spin_multi}
Putting on and removing rings takes a turn properly now & can be cancelled.
Implemented ')', '[', and '=' commands.
Implemented '/' command including the spew-a-literary-reference part.
	NOTE for checking into Berlios:  need to "CVS ADD" data.c, form_prefs.c, win.c, win.h
Testing all menu actions:
    SHOW
	Map /M: ok
	Message-log /L: ok
	/ What-is-that: ok! but, would be better if you could use graffiti too.
	\ Discoveries: ok
	: Look-here: ok
	Instructions: ok
	About-PaleoHack: ok
	High-scores: ok
	Quit /Q: ok
    GO/DO
	Teleport: untested and not wholly implemented  <--------------
	< Up: ok
	> Down: ok
	f Run: ok
	F Run more: ok
	m Move onto: ok
	M run onto: ok
	. rest: ok
	, pickup: ok
	E engrave: ok
	s search: ok
	^ trap id: ok
    USE
	i inventory: ok - needs more checking
	$ count gold: ok
	p pay bill: ok if no bill, needs testing in store  <--------------
	c call: ok
	C name: ok
	a apply: ok          need to check all tools
	e eat: ok            need to check all foods
	q quaff: ok          need to check all potions
	r read: ok           need to check all scrolls
	t throw: ok          need to check special effects, if any
	z zap: ok            need to check all wands
    PUT	
	d drop: ok
	D drop: $ is ok, symbols are ok, 'a' is sometimes ok  <--------------
	) curr weap: ok
	[ curr arm: ok
	= curr rings: ok
	w wield: ok
	P put on ring: ok    need to check special effects, if any
	R remove ring: ok
	T take off armor: ok, but need to compare turns-taken to Hack.  <--
	W wear armor: ok, but need to compare turns-taken to Hack.  <--
    SET	
	badly need to add Preferences!!!!  small font works though.

----------
WED AUG 21
----------
Began adding preferences:
"Font Size" is an IMPLICIT preference, recorded when you exit the app.
RelativeMove, Sound, and Invert are preferences.  They seem to work ok.
----------
FRI AUG 23
----------
Fixed 'identify' so that it takes a turn and allows re-choosing of types.
(Also, dog movement seems to be ok for identify.)
Fixed bug with printing objects in a stack w/o gold hat you are standing on.
Fixed crash bug when you wield a dead cockatrice via inv-form menu.
Dead cockatrice will now kill you when engraving w/o gloves.
Dead cockatrice will now kill you when wielded and you remove your gloves.
Tweaked phase-of-moon to match up with reality & hack a little better.
----------
SAT AUG 24
----------
...Checked everything in to Berlios.
'COUNT':
   hjklyubn *and* HJKLYUBN *and* fFmM are affected by count.  
   '.' 's'
   intriguingly, 't' (but it asks for object and direction each time)
     but not 'e' or 'a'
   intriguingly, 'r' and 'q' and 'd' (but it asks for object each time)
    (one might THINK that '2d' would drop two of the stacked-item you select,
    but to do that, you need to do 'd2' .... GAAAAAAH need count in inv!
    you can't use a number with 'D' though.)
   intriguingly, 'P' (up to 2) and 'R' (up to 2) but not 'w' or 'T' or 'W'.
    Ahhh.  I have it.  Anything that coincidentally happens to set 'multi'
    for its own purposes (like to make things take a while) can't repeat.
   Inventory counts are allowed for:  "put in", "drop".
----------
WED AUG 28
----------
Added inventory count (in invaction form ONLY) for 'put in' and 'drop'.

combining the preAugust and midAugust to-do lists:
TO DO:  teleportation interacts poorly with 'more' mode......
	saving and restoring of WORMS is NOT IMPLEMENTED YET.
	look at all the inv actions, make sure they take turn/don't, properly.
		DONE FOR DUNGEON MENUS, BUT NOT FOR 'INV' FORM
	game crashed if killed by eel? fix this.
	Need 'count' (e.g. "99." SHOULD rest for 99 turns).
        Add preferences/hardwarebutton forms to configure my_prefs values.
		PARTLY DONE
   Bug:	sometimes levels are being created with cruft in walls, or [] character
	in tunnels.
   Bug: null pointer or something when you "float to ground" after levitate.
        ditto when you die of food poisoning non-immediately ?
		hm, I died of food poisoning w/o crashing (8/18/02)(8/23/02).
   Bug:	Sometimes get a memory error (in movemon()).
		PH just read from memory location 0x7E7C, unallocated chunk.
		I have moved movemon to the default code section, keep eye out.
   Bug:	PH will crash if you leave character generation before 1st character.
		or anyway it will create an empty save file.
		(note, this is only for the very first character ever.)
   Bug:	Sometimes you start out with NO DOG.  I think.
   x:   Check for things that are supposed to use {delay, nomul, spin_multi}
	but don't yet due to laziness (like, 'W' was one til I fixed it).
	Probably I should grep 'multi' linux-hack/*.c and check correspondence.
		Need to test "stealarm" (steal.c)
   x:   I haven't tested the icebox in a long long time.  Looks like it works
        but its food preservation ability has never been confirmed by me.



ON A RAINY DAY:	Colorize the Map screen
		Add a confirmation popup "are you sure" to "Quit".
Note to self: to be wizard in linux hack, "./hack -D"